manual/prelims/what-is-longevity.md, before:

---
title: what is longevity?
layout: page
---

At it's heart, longevity is a persistence framework. Our aim is to do
all the persistence work for you, and to present persistence via a
clean API that helps you isolate persistence concerns from other parts
of your application. This is a big win for you, as building and
maintaining a persistence layer is typically a major effort when
writing database applications.

To accomplish this, we ask you to build your _domain objects_ - those
data that you want to persist - according to certain rules. We hope
you agree that these rules are not overly restrictive. And we ask you
to tell longevity about your domain objects by constructing a
longevity [subdomain](../subdomain). The first half of this user
manual, more or less, describes how to build your `Subdomain`.

Once you build your `Subdomain`, you pass it back to longevity to get
your `LongevityContext`. The main thing we provide to you with the
[longevity context](../context) is a
[pool](../context/repo-pools.html) of [repositories](../repo) for you
to use. These repositories present with a complete persistence API,
including CRUD operations (create/retrieve/update/delete), and
[queries](../query) that return multiple results.

The longevity context provides you with other tools that we generally
consider part of the persistence layer. We provide you with a set of
repositories that persist to a test database, as well as fully
functional in-memory repositories, that you can use for testing. We
provide you with integration tests that will exercise all of the
repository CRUD operations. And we provide you with a framework for
testing any queries that are important to your application.

We borrow "subdomain" and "context" terminology from [Domain Driven
Design](http://dddcommunity.org/), and the concepts of DDD have
influenced the design of longevity itself. But it's important to note
that longevity is primarily a persistence framework, and you don't
have to know or care about DDD to use it. The key principle that we
take from DDD is that our domain classes should express our domain
model as closely as possible, and should be isolated from
application-level concerns. Whether or not you are doing DDD, we think
you will find that this kind of separation of concerns will help you
build solid, long-lasting applications.

{% assign prevTitle = "preliminaries" %}
{% assign prevLink  = "." %}
{% assign upTitle   = "preliminaries" %}
{% assign upLink    = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "project setup" %}
{% assign nextLink  = "project-setup.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}

Commit message:

s/subdomain/domain model/ in manual

manual/prelims/what-is-longevity.md, after:

---
title: what is longevity?
layout: page
---

At it's heart, longevity is a persistence framework. Our aim is to do
all the persistence work for you, and to present persistence via a
clean API that helps you isolate persistence concerns from other parts
of your application. This is a big win for you, as building and
maintaining a persistence layer is typically a major effort when
writing database applications.

To accomplish this, you start by constructing your [_domain
model_](../model) - those classes that compose the structures you want
to persist - using conventional Scala language elements such as case
classes, sealed traits, options, and immutable sets and lists. Then,
mark your domain classes with longevity annotations to describe the
roles they play in the model. (If you don't want to use the
annotations, you can describe them in their companion objects
instead.) Finally, gather all of these elements together into a
longevity `DomainModel` object.

Once you build your `DomainModel`, you pass it back to longevity to get
your `LongevityContext`. The main thing we provide to you with the
[longevity context](../context) is a
[pool](../context/repo-pools.html) of [repositories](../repo) for you
to use. These repositories present with a complete persistence API,
including CRUD operations (create/retrieve/update/delete), and
[queries](../query) that return multiple results.

The longevity context provides you with other tools that we generally
consider part of the persistence layer. We provide you with a set of
repositories that persist to a test database, as well as fully
functional in-memory repositories, that you can use for testing. We
provide you with integration tests that will exercise all of the
repository CRUD operations. And we provide you with a framework for
testing any queries that are important to your application.

{% assign prevTitle = "preliminaries" %}
{% assign prevLink  = "." %}
{% assign upTitle   = "preliminaries" %}
{% assign upLink    = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "project setup" %}
{% assign nextLink  = "project-setup.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}
