longevity/src/jekyll/resources.md, before:

---
title: longevity resources
layout: page
---

- [Feature List](feature-list.html) - A quick rundown on what
  longevity provides for you
- [Getting Started Guide](getting-started) - Covers the basics, should
  take maybe a half hour to read through
- [User Manual](manual) - A comprehensive guide to using longevity
- [Scaladocs](api) - Programmer's API
- [Discussion
  Forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/longevity-users) - On
  Google Groups. Please drop a line! We really want to hear from you!

- [License](license.html) - Apache 2
- [How You Can Contribute](contributing.html) - We are always squeezed
  for hours to work on this code, and there are loads of great
  features to be implemented. Please consider contributing.
- [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/longevityframework/longevity) -
  Join the lively conversation
- [Story Board](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1231978) -
  Check out the future roadmap for longevity
- [Latest News](http://scabl.blogspot.com/search/label/longevity) -
  While we wish longevity had its own blog, for the time being, we
  share longevity news at the [scabl blog](http://scabl.blogspot.com/search/label/longevity)

Commit message:

add links for new video demo

longevity/src/jekyll/resources.md, after:

---
title: longevity resources
layout: page
---

- [Feature List](feature-list.html) - A quick rundown on what
  longevity provides for you
- [Video Demo](https://youtu.be/AJMETrjSzzY) - Seventy minute introductory video that will walk you
  through the basics of using longevity
- [User Manual](manual) - A comprehensive guide to using longevity
- [Getting Started Guide](getting-started) - Covers the basics, should
  take a half hour to an hour to read through
- [Scaladocs](api) - Programmer's API
- [Discussion
  Forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/longevity-users) - On
  Google Groups. Please drop a line! We really want to hear from you!

- [License](license.html) - Apache 2
- [How You Can Contribute](contributing.html) - We are always squeezed
  for hours to work on this code, and there are loads of great
  features to be implemented. Please consider contributing.
- [Gitter Channel](https://gitter.im/longevityframework/longevity) -
  Join the lively conversation
- [Story Board](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1231978) -
  Check out the future roadmap for longevity
- [Latest News](http://scabl.blogspot.com/search/label/longevity) -
  While we wish longevity had its own blog, for the time being, we
  share longevity news at the [scabl blog](http://scabl.blogspot.com/search/label/longevity)
