index.md, before:

---
title: welcome to longevity
layout: page
---

This project is still in early development. A [minimum marketable
product
(MMP)](http://www.romanpichler.com/blog/minimum-viable-product-and-minimal-marketable-product/)
\- that is, the earliest version suitable for your use - is coming soon! I just hit my 0.1 milestone,
and 0.2 - the MMP - has three stories in it. I plan to work through those three stories while I'm
writing the initial user doc. I can't make any promises about timing, but you can always [watch the board](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1231978), and I'll let you know when it's ready.

longevity currently contains three subprojects:

- **emblem** - a metaprogramming library for managing types and reflecting case classes
- **longevity** - a DDD persistence framework for Scala and MongoDB
- **musette** - a content resource management system

emblem is a utility library used by longevity, and you can think of
musette as a flagship project that makes use of longevity.

I've started working on the [User Manual](manual). It's early
yet. I'll put out an announcement when the user manual is good enough
for you to get started.

[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/sullivan-/longevity.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sullivan-/longevity.svg)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-Apache%202-brightgreen.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt)

Commit message:

add hibernate chapter and redo front page

index.md, after:

---
title: welcome to longevity
layout: page
---

Longevity is gearing up for an MMP release!

I've been working on the [user manual](manual), and I think it's
looking really nice. I want to get an initial version of that out
before I go to release. I also have one more feature to include -
[optimistic
locking](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/84759552). I figure
it's an easy win for the effort I'll put in. The critical feature
after that is [ad-hoc aggregate
queries](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/100264584). I have
a [lot of stuff
after](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/epic/show/1769462) that that I
want to get in a 1.0 release, but the criticality of those features
tapers off, so people will actually be able to start using it real
soon.

TODO elevator pitch goes right here

- [User Manual](manual)
- [Longevity is Like Hibernate](not-hibernate.html)
- Feature List TODO
- Longevity and Emblem TODO
- Contributing TODO
- Reporting Problems TODO

[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/sullivan-/longevity.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sullivan-/longevity.svg)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-Apache%202-brightgreen.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt)
