getting-started/context.md, before:

---
title: building the longevity context
layout: page
---

Once we have your subdomain in place, we are ready to build our
`LongevityContext`, which we do in `SimblContextImpl.scala`:

```scala
import longevity.context.LongevityContext
import longevity.context.InMem

val coreDomain = new SimblCoreDomain
val longevityContext = LongevityContext(coreDomain, InMem)
```

The longevity context provides a variety of tools that are tailored to
your subdomain. The most important of these is the `RepoPool`, which
contains repositories for your persistent objects. You can use these
repositories to do standard CRUD operations
(create/retrieve/update/delete), as well as executing queries that
return more than one result.

Apart from the subdomain itself, we have to provide a
`PersistenceStrategy` when building the longevity context. Your
choices are currently `InMem`, `Mongo`, and `Cassandra`. We use
`InMem` out of the box, so that the application will work out of the
box, even if you don't have a MongoDB or Cassandra database set up for
use.

Longevity uses [Typesafe
Config](https://github.com/typesafehub/config) to configure the
longevity context. Typically, the configuration is drawn from the
`application.conf` resource file. The longevity configuration for
Simple Blogging looks this:

```prop
longevity.mongodb.uri = "localhost:27017"
longevity.mongodb.db = simbl_main
longevity.test.mongodb.uri = "localhost:27017"
longevity.test.mongodb.db = simbl_test

longevity.cassandra.address = "localhost"
longevity.cassandra.useCredentials = no
longevity.cassandra.username = nil
longevity.cassandra.password = nil
longevity.cassandra.keyspace = simbl_main
longevity.cassandra.replicationFactor = 1

longevity.test.cassandra.address = "localhost"
longevity.test.cassandra.useCredentials = no
longevity.test.cassandra.username = nil
longevity.test.cassandra.password = nil
longevity.test.cassandra.keyspace = simbl_test
longevity.test.cassandra.replicationFactor = 1
```

Here, you can find configurations for main and test databases for both
Mongo and Cassandra. If you want to experiment with adjusting the
persistence strategy to use a real database, you may need to tweak
this configuration.

{% assign prevTitle = "building the subdomain" %}
{% assign prevLink = "building.html" %}
{% assign upTitle = "getting started guide" %}
{% assign upLink = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle="the akka http routes" %}
{% assign nextLink="routes.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}

Commit message:

update getting started config section

getting-started/context.md, after:

---
title: building the longevity context
layout: page
---

Once we have your subdomain in place, we are ready to build our
`LongevityContext`, which we do in `SimblContextImpl.scala`:

```scala
import longevity.context.LongevityContext

val coreDomain = new SimblCoreDomain
val longevityContext = LongevityContext(coreDomain)
```

The longevity context provides a variety of tools that are tailored to
your subdomain. The most important of these is the `RepoPool`, which
contains repositories for your persistent objects. You can use these
repositories to do standard CRUD operations
(create/retrieve/update/delete), as well as executing queries that
return more than one result.

Longevity uses [Typesafe
Config](https://github.com/typesafehub/config) to configure the
longevity context. Typically, the configuration is drawn from the
`application.conf` resource file. The longevity configuration for
Simple Blogging looks this:

```prop
longevity.backEnd = InMem
longevity.autocreateSchema = true
longevity.optimisticLocking = false

longevity.mongodb.uri = "localhost:27017"
longevity.mongodb.db = simbl_main
longevity.test.mongodb.uri = "localhost:27017"
longevity.test.mongodb.db = simbl_test

longevity.cassandra.address = "localhost"
longevity.cassandra.useCredentials = no
longevity.cassandra.username = nil
longevity.cassandra.password = nil
longevity.cassandra.keyspace = simbl_main
longevity.cassandra.replicationFactor = 1

longevity.test.cassandra.address = "localhost"
longevity.test.cassandra.useCredentials = no
longevity.test.cassandra.username = nil
longevity.test.cassandra.password = nil
longevity.test.cassandra.keyspace = simbl_test
longevity.test.cassandra.replicationFactor = 1
```

Here, you need to specify the back end in configuration property
`longevity.backEnd`. Your choices are currently `InMem`, `Mongo`, and
`Cassandra`. We use `InMem` out of the box, so that this tutorial will
work even if you don't have a MongoDB or Cassandra database set up for
use.

You can find configurations for main and test databases for both Mongo
and Cassandra in the config file. If you want to experiment with
adjusting the persistence strategy to use a real database, you may
need to tweak this configuration.

{% assign prevTitle = "building the subdomain" %}
{% assign prevLink = "building.html" %}
{% assign upTitle = "getting started guide" %}
{% assign upLink = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle="the akka http routes" %}
{% assign nextLink="routes.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}
