getting-started/index.md, before:

---
title: getting started with longevity
layout: page
---

This guide walks through the basic steps needed to get started
building a real-life application with
[longevity](http://longevityframework.github.io/longevity/). The
application we will be looking at here is a sample blogging
application, built with longevity on the back end, and using [Akka
HTTP](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.4.8/scala/http/) for a REST API
that could be used by a web client. You can find the source code here:

[https://github.com/longevityframework/simbl](https://github.com/longevityframework/simbl)

The simbl project (short for "Simple Blogging") also doubles as a
[Lightbend Activator tutorial](../activator.html). The tutorial and
this guide cover roughly the same material. We created this guide for
people who couldn't be bothered to install and learn [Lightbend
Activator](https://www.lightbend.com/community/core-tools/activator-and-sbt).

We will only have the chance to cover a portion of the blogging
application code, so please feel free to explore the codebase further
on your own. You can also look to the [user manual](../manual) for
more information.

Here's a table of contents for the getting started guide:

1. [Modelling our Subdomain](modelling.html)
1. [Building the User Aggregate](user.html)
1. [The User Profile](user-profile.html)
1. [Username and Email](keyvals.html)
1. [Building the Subdomain](building.html)
1. [Building the Longevity Context](context.html)
1. [The Akka HTTP Routes](routes.html)
1. [The User Service](service.html)
1. [User Service Implementation](service-impl.html)
1. [UserServiceImpl.createUser](create-user.html)
1. [UserServiceImpl.retrieveUser](retrieve-user.html)
1. [UserServiceImpl.updateUser](update-user.html)
1. [Exercising the API](api.html)
1. [Testing CRUD Operations](testing.html)
1. [Exercises for the Reader](exercises.html)

{% assign upTitle = "longevity site" %}
{% assign upLink = ".." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "modelling our subdomain" %}
{% assign nextLink = "modelling.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}

Commit message:

mention play activator; clean getting started

getting-started/index.md, after:

---
title: getting started with longevity
layout: page
---

This guide walks through the basic steps needed to get started
building a real-life application with
[longevity](http://longevityframework.github.io/longevity/). The
application we will be looking at here is a sample blogging
application, built with longevity on the back end, and using [Akka
HTTP](http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.4.8/scala/http/) for a REST API
that could be used by a web client. You can find the source code here:

[https://github.com/longevityframework/simbl](https://github.com/longevityframework/simbl)

The simbl project (short for "Simple Blogging") doubles as a
[Lightbend Activator tutorial](../activator.html). We've also ported
the Akka HTTP tutorial into Play. The tutorials and this guide cover
roughly the same material, with this guide following the Akka HTTP
version.

We will only have the chance to cover a portion of the blogging
application code, so please feel free to explore the codebase further
on your own. You can also look to the [user manual](../manual) for
more information.

Here's a table of contents for the getting started guide:

1. [Modelling our Subdomain](modelling.html)
1. [Building the User Aggregate](user.html)
1. [The User Profile](user-profile.html)
1. [Username and Email](keyvals.html)
1. [Building the Subdomain](building.html)
1. [Building the Longevity Context](context.html)
1. [The Akka HTTP Routes](routes.html)
1. [The User Service](service.html)
1. [User Service Implementation](service-impl.html)
1. [UserServiceImpl.createUser](create-user.html)
1. [UserServiceImpl.retrieveUser](retrieve-user.html)
1. [UserServiceImpl.updateUser](update-user.html)
1. [Exercising the API](api.html)
1. [Testing CRUD Operations](testing.html)
1. [Exercises for the Reader](exercises.html)

{% assign upTitle = "longevity site" %}
{% assign upLink = ".." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "modelling our subdomain" %}
{% assign nextLink = "modelling.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}
