manual/translation/mongo.md, before:

---
title: mongodb translation
layout: page
---

The persistent object is translated directly into a BSON document as
described in the earlier section [Persistent to JSON](json.html). Some
other persistence-related fields are added to the BSON. All these
fields are prefixed with an underscore (`_`). For this reason, we
**highly recommend against** writing [persistent
objects](../persistent) with members whose names start with an
underscore.

As of now, we add two underscore-prefixed columns to the BSON. The
first is `_id`, as described in the [next
section](mongo-keys.html). The second is `_rowVersion`, which is used
by [optimistic locking](../context/opt-lock.html), and is only
included when optimistic locking is turned on. You can expect to see
more such fields in the future, such as `_createdDate`, `_createdBy`,
`_modifiedDate`, `_modifiedBy`, and `_schemaVersion`.

MongoDB collection names are generated by [uncapitalizing the
camel-cased](http://longevityframework.org/scaladocs/emblem-latest/index.html#emblem.stringUtil$@uncapitalize(s:String):String)
name of the persistent class.

{% assign prevTitle = "cassandra keys" %}
{% assign prevLink  = "cassandra-keys.html" %}
{% assign upTitle   = "translating persistents to the database" %}
{% assign upLink    = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "mongodb keys" %}
{% assign nextLink  = "mongo-keys.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}

Commit message:

add docs for write timestamps

manual/translation/mongo.md, after:

---
title: mongodb translation
layout: page
---

The persistent object is translated directly into a BSON document as
described in the earlier section [Persistent to JSON](json.html). Some
other persistence-related fields are added to the BSON. All these
fields are prefixed with an underscore (`_`). For this reason, we
**highly recommend against** writing [persistent
objects](../persistent) with members whose names start with an
underscore.

We add some underscore-prefixed properties to the BSON. The first is
`_id`, as described in the [next section](mongo-keys.html). The second
is `_rowVersion`, which is used by [optimistic
locking](../context/opt-lock.html), and is only included when
optimistic locking is turned on. We also include timestamp properties
`_createdTimestamp` and `_updatedTimestamp` for diagnostic purposes,
when [write timestamps](../context/write-timestamps.html) is turned on.
More such fields may be added in the future.

MongoDB collection names are generated by [uncapitalizing the
camel-cased](http://longevityframework.org/scaladocs/emblem-latest/index.html#emblem.stringUtil$@uncapitalize(s:String):String)
name of the persistent class.

{% assign prevTitle = "cassandra keys" %}
{% assign prevLink  = "cassandra-keys.html" %}
{% assign upTitle   = "translating persistents to the database" %}
{% assign upLink    = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "mongodb keys" %}
{% assign nextLink  = "mongo-keys.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}
