manual/translation/sqlite.md, before:

---
title: sqlite translation
layout: page
---

Every SQLite table has at least one column: A column named `p`, which
stores the [persistent object translated into JSON](json.html). If
[optimistic locking](../context/opt-lock.html) is turned on, then a
`row_version` column is also added.

More columns are added to support any [keys](../ptype/keys.html) or
[indexes](../ptype/indexes.html) for the [persistent type](../ptype).
Every [property](../ptype/properties.html) used in a key or index is
expanded in to a sequence of property components that all have [basic
types](../model/basics.html). These property components are stored in
columns, and all have names prefixed with `prop_`.

The property components that make up your primary key are included in
a `PRIMARY KEY` clause in the `CREATE TABLE` statement. If you do not
define a `primaryKey` for your `PType`, longevity will create a column
named `id`, of type `text`, and use that as the primary key. The
primary key values will be random UUID values as generated by
`java.util.UUID.randomUUID()`.

All your non-primary keys and indexes will be backed by SQLite
indexes, built up from the property components described above. The
indexes for non-primary keys will be unique, and the SQLite indexes
for longevity indexes will be non-unique.

The property component columns are used to back calls to
[Repo.retrieve](../repo/retrieve.html), as well as [query
retrievals](../query/retrieve-by.html). Please note that queries
constructed using properties that are not part of a longevity key or
index will fail.

SQLite table names are generated by [underscoring the
camel-cased](http://longevityframework.org/scaladocs/emblem-latest/index.html#emblem.stringUtil$@camelToUnderscore(name:String):String)
name of the persistent class.

{% assign prevTitle = "mongodb keys" %}
{% assign prevLink  = "mongo-keys.html" %}
{% assign upTitle   = "translating persistents to the database" %}
{% assign upLink    = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "managing logging" %}
{% assign nextLink  = "../logging.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}

Commit message:

add docs for write timestamps

manual/translation/sqlite.md, after:

---
title: sqlite translation
layout: page
---

Every SQLite table has at least one column: A column named `p`, which
stores the [persistent object translated into JSON](json.html). If the
[write timestamps](../context/write-timestamps.html) configuration is
turned on, then `created_timestamp` and `modified_timestamp` columns
are added. If [optimistic locking](../context/opt-lock.html) is turned
on, then a `row_version` column is also added.

More columns are added to support any [keys](../ptype/keys.html) or
[indexes](../ptype/indexes.html) for the [persistent type](../ptype).
Every [property](../ptype/properties.html) used in a key or index is
expanded in to a sequence of property components that all have [basic
types](../model/basics.html). These property components are stored in
columns, and all have names prefixed with `prop_`.

The property components that make up your primary key are included in
a `PRIMARY KEY` clause in the `CREATE TABLE` statement. If you do not
define a `primaryKey` for your `PType`, longevity will create a column
named `id`, of type `text`, and use that as the primary key. The
primary key values will be random UUID values as generated by
`java.util.UUID.randomUUID()`.

All your non-primary keys and indexes will be backed by SQLite
indexes, built up from the property components described above. The
indexes for non-primary keys will be unique, and the SQLite indexes
for longevity indexes will be non-unique.

The property component columns are used to back calls to
[Repo.retrieve](../repo/retrieve.html), as well as [query
retrievals](../query/retrieve-by.html). Please note that queries
constructed using properties that are not part of a longevity key or
index will fail.

SQLite table names are generated by [underscoring the
camel-cased](http://longevityframework.org/scaladocs/emblem-latest/index.html#emblem.stringUtil$@camelToUnderscore(name:String):String)
name of the persistent class.

{% assign prevTitle = "mongodb keys" %}
{% assign prevLink  = "mongo-keys.html" %}
{% assign upTitle   = "translating persistents to the database" %}
{% assign upLink    = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "managing logging" %}
{% assign nextLink  = "../logging.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}
