manual/subdomain/index.md, before:

---
title: the subdomain
layout: page
---

Your main task when working with longevity is constructing your
`Subdomain`. Once this is done, we provide you with persistence. Your
subdomain classes are the core of your application(s). The other
layers perform their individual functions while using the domain
classes fluidly.

Here are two ways to build an empty `Subdomain`:

```scala
import longevity.subdomain.Subdomain

// put your subdomain in a local val:

val subdomain = Subdomain("blogging")

// or define your subdomain as a singleton object:

object BloggingDomain extends Subdomain("blogging")
```

Of course, we don't really want an empty subdomain. In the rest of
this chapter, we will cover the basics of filling your subdomain with
the classes you want to persist:

- [Persistent Objects](persistents.html)
- [Persistent Types](ptypes.html)
- [Basic Values](basics.html)
- [Collections](collections.html)
- [Components](components.html)
- [Key Values](key-values.html)
- [Limitations on Persistents, Embeddables, and Key Values](limitations.html)

{% assign prevTitle = "project setup" %}
{% assign prevLink  = "../prelims/project-setup.html" %}
{% assign upTitle   = "user manual" %}
{% assign upLink    = ".." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "persistent objects" %}
{% assign nextLink  = "persistents.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}

Commit message:

annotations update through subdomain chapter
(of the manual)

manual/subdomain/index.md, after:

---
title: the subdomain
layout: page
---

In longevity, we use the term _subdomain_ to describe the classes you
want to persist. Typically, these are the classes that make up your
[domain model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_model).

There are two basic approaches you can take to describe your subdomain
to longevity:

- marking the classes you want to persist with
[annotations](http://docs.scala-lang.org/tutorials/tour/annotations.html), or
- providing companion objects for your classes that describe how you
want to persist them.

We recommend you use the annotations-based approach, as it decidedly
cuts down on boilerplate code. These annotations are actually
[macros](http://docs.scala-lang.org/overviews/macros/annotations.html),
so you will need to include this line in your `build.sbt` to use them:

```scala
addCompilerPlugin("org.scalamacros" % "paradise" % "2.1.0" cross CrossVersion.full)
```

Everything you can do with the annotations, you can do with the
descriptor companion object approach as well. The examples in this
user manual will favor the annotations approach, but we will include
the equivalent companion object version every time a new annotation
feature is presented.

In this chapter, we will first look at how you can build all the
elements of your domain model. In the final section, we will see how
to gather all of these elements into a
`longevity.subdomain.Subdomain`. Here's an overview:

- [Persistent Objects](persistents.html)
- [Basic Values](basics.html)
- [Collections](collections.html)
- [Components](components.html)
- [Key Values](key-values.html)
- [Limitations on Persistents, Embeddables, and Key Values](limitations.html)
- [Constructing a Subdomain](subdomain.html)

{% assign prevTitle = "project setup" %}
{% assign prevLink  = "../prelims/project-setup.html" %}
{% assign upTitle   = "user manual" %}
{% assign upLink    = ".." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "persistent objects" %}
{% assign nextLink  = "persistents.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}
