manual/context/config.md, before:

---
title: configuring your longevity context
layout: page
---

Longevity uses [Typesafe
Config](https://github.com/typesafehub/config) to help you configure
your `LongevityContext`. The default configuration settings are found
in the `reference.conf` file included in the longevity jar. (Here's
the [latest version on
GitHub](https://github.com/longevityframework/longevity/blob/master/longevity/src/main/resources/reference.conf).)

The typical way to supply configuration to your application is to
override these defaults in your `application.conf` file, located on
your classpath.

If you have multiple `LongevityContexts` living in the same
application, and they have different configurations, you can supply
separate `com.typesafe.config.Config` objects to the
`LongevityContext` factory method:

```scala
import com.typesafe.config.Config
import longevity.context.LongevityContext
import longevity.model.DomainModel

val bloggingDomain = DomainModel("com.example.app.model.blogging")
val bloggingConfig: Config = loadBloggingConfig()
val bloggingContext = LongevityContext(
  bloggingDomain,
  bloggingConfig)

val accountsSubdomain = DomainModel("com.example.app.model.accounts")
val accountsConfig: Config = loadAccountsConfig()
val accountsContext = LongevityContext(
  accountsSubdomain,
  accountsConfig)
```

Please see the [Typesafe Config
documentation](https://github.com/typesafehub/config#overview) for
more information on the different ways you can manage your
configuration.

Longevity converts the Typesafe Config into a `LongevityConfig` case
class internally. You can use case class configuration if you
prefer. Here we use the `LongevityConfig` case class to define the
same configuration as found in the `reference.conf` file:

```scala
import longevity.context.CassandraConfig
import longevity.context.InMem
import longevity.context.JdbcConfig
import longevity.context.LongevityConfig
import longevity.context.MongoConfig
import longevity.context.TestConfig

val longevityConfig = LongevityConfig(
  backEnd = InMem, // one of Cassandra, InMem, JDBC, Mongo, SQLite
  autocreateSchema = false,
  optimisticLocking = false,
  cassandra = CassandraConfig(
    address = "127.0.0.1",
    credentials = None,
    keyspace = "longevity_main",
    replicationFactor = 1),
  mongodb = MongoConfig(
    uri = "mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017",
    db = "longevity_main"),
  jdbc = JdbcConfig(
    driverClass = "org.sqlite.JDBC"
    url = "jdbc:sqlite:longevity_main.db"),
  test = TestConfig(
    cassandra = CassandraConfig(
      address = "127.0.0.1",
      credentials = None,
      keyspace = "longevity_test",
      replicationFactor = 1),
    mongodb = MongoConfig(
      uri = "mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017",
      db = "longevity_test"),
    jdbc = JdbcConfig(
      driverClass = "org.sqlite.JDBC"
      url = "jdbc:sqlite:longevity_test.db")))

val bloggingContext = new LongevityContext(
  bloggingDomain,
  longevityConfig)
```

The most important configuration setting is `longevity.backEnd`. This
is where you choose your database. Right now, the options are
`Cassandra`, `JDBC`, `InMem`, `Mongo`, and `SQLite`.

The `JDBC` back end is a generic back end that you can use for any
databases with a JDBC driver. Unfortunately, we are not able to
provide support for any JDBC driver other than SQLite, because we have
no way of writing integration tests against this back end without
specifying the JDBC driver, and the longevity framework team (i.e.,
me) already has their hands full supporting the other back ends. That
said, we would be *more* than happy to give you help and advice in
troubleshooting any problems. In fact, we've made it as easy as
possible for you to build and maintain your own JDBC-flavored back
end. See [these
instructions](https://github.com/longevityframework/longevity/wiki/How-to-create-a-new-JDBC-back-end)
for details.

{% assign prevTitle = "the longevity context" %}
{% assign prevLink = "." %}
{% assign upTitle = "the longevity context" %}
{% assign upLink = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "optimistic locking" %}
{% assign nextLink = "opt-lock.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}

Commit message:

add docs for write timestamps

manual/context/config.md, after:

---
title: configuring your longevity context
layout: page
---

Longevity uses [Typesafe
Config](https://github.com/typesafehub/config) to help you configure
your `LongevityContext`. The default configuration settings are found
in the `reference.conf` file included in the longevity jar. (Here's
the [latest version on
GitHub](https://github.com/longevityframework/longevity/blob/master/longevity/src/main/resources/reference.conf).)

The typical way to supply configuration to your application is to
override these defaults in your `application.conf` file, located on
your classpath.

If you have multiple `LongevityContexts` living in the same
application, and they have different configurations, you can supply
separate `com.typesafe.config.Config` objects to the
`LongevityContext` factory method:

```scala
import com.typesafe.config.Config
import longevity.context.LongevityContext
import longevity.model.DomainModel

val bloggingDomain = DomainModel("com.example.app.model.blogging")
val bloggingConfig: Config = loadBloggingConfig()
val bloggingContext = LongevityContext(
  bloggingDomain,
  bloggingConfig)

val accountsSubdomain = DomainModel("com.example.app.model.accounts")
val accountsConfig: Config = loadAccountsConfig()
val accountsContext = LongevityContext(
  accountsSubdomain,
  accountsConfig)
```

Please see the [Typesafe Config
documentation](https://github.com/typesafehub/config#overview) for
more information on the different ways you can manage your
configuration.

Longevity converts the Typesafe Config into a `LongevityConfig` case
class internally. You can use case class configuration if you
prefer. Here we use the `LongevityConfig` case class to define the
same configuration as found in the `reference.conf` file:

```scala
import longevity.context.CassandraConfig
import longevity.context.InMem
import longevity.context.JdbcConfig
import longevity.context.LongevityConfig
import longevity.context.MongoConfig
import longevity.context.TestConfig

val longevityConfig = LongevityConfig(
  backEnd = InMem, // one of Cassandra, InMem, JDBC, Mongo, SQLite
  autocreateSchema = false,
  optimisticLocking = false,
  writeTimestamps = false,
  cassandra = CassandraConfig(
    address = "127.0.0.1",
    credentials = None,
    keyspace = "longevity_main",
    replicationFactor = 1),
  mongodb = MongoConfig(
    uri = "mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017",
    db = "longevity_main"),
  jdbc = JdbcConfig(
    driverClass = "org.sqlite.JDBC"
    url = "jdbc:sqlite:longevity_main.db"),
  test = TestConfig(
    cassandra = CassandraConfig(
      address = "127.0.0.1",
      credentials = None,
      keyspace = "longevity_test",
      replicationFactor = 1),
    mongodb = MongoConfig(
      uri = "mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017",
      db = "longevity_test"),
    jdbc = JdbcConfig(
      driverClass = "org.sqlite.JDBC"
      url = "jdbc:sqlite:longevity_test.db")))

val bloggingContext = new LongevityContext(
  bloggingDomain,
  longevityConfig)
```

The most important configuration setting is `longevity.backEnd`. This
is where you choose your database. Right now, the options are
`Cassandra`, `JDBC`, `InMem`, `Mongo`, and `SQLite`.

The `JDBC` back end is a generic back end that you can use for any
databases with a JDBC driver. Unfortunately, we are not able to
provide support for any JDBC driver other than SQLite, because we have
no way of writing integration tests against this back end without
specifying the JDBC driver, and the longevity framework team (i.e.,
me) already has their hands full supporting the other back ends. That
said, we would be *more* than happy to give you help and advice in
troubleshooting any problems. In fact, we've made it as easy as
possible for you to build and maintain your own JDBC-flavored back
end. See [these
instructions](https://github.com/longevityframework/longevity/wiki/How-to-create-a-new-JDBC-back-end)
for details.

details with writeTimestamps:

- if created when writeTimestamps==false, createdTimestamp will always be null
- if updated when writeTimestamps==false, createdTimestamp & updatedTimestamp will be left alone
  - except mongo, which will voerwrite them

{% assign prevTitle = "the longevity context" %}
{% assign prevLink = "." %}
{% assign upTitle = "the longevity context" %}
{% assign upLink = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "optimistic locking" %}
{% assign nextLink = "opt-lock.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}
