manual/ptype/properties.md, before:

---
title: properties
layout: page
---

In our `PType`, when we talk about the fields of our persistent
object, we talk about properties, or `Props`. Properties map to
underlying members within the [persistent object](../persistent), at
any depth. They follow a path from the root of the persistent object,
and take on the type of that member in the persistent. We typically
define them in a singleton object `props` inside the `PType`. Here's
an example defining a couple of properties:

```scala
import longevity.subdomain.PType

case class UserProfile(
  tagline: String,
  imageUri: Uri,
  description: Markdown)

case class User(
  username: String,
  email: Email,
  profile: UserProfile)

object User extends PType[User] {
  object props {

    // fully typed:
    val profileDescription: longevity.subdomain.ptype.Prop[User, Markdown] =
      prop[Markdown]("profile.description")

    // brief:
    val username = prop[String]("username")
  }
  object keys {
  }
}
```

You need to specify the type of the property yourself, and longevity
will check that the type is correct when the `Subdomain` is created.

In principle, properties could map through any path from the
persistent object, and have a wide variety of types. In practice, we
currently support property types that can boiled down to a distinct
sequence of [basic values](../basics.html). You cannot currently use
collection types such as `Option`, `Set`, and `List` anywhere along
the property path, and the property path cannot terminate with a
[polymorphic object](../poly).

We're planning on building these properties for you using
[macros](http://docs.scala-lang.org/overviews/macros/overview.html). This
will remove the hassle of declaring properties by hand, and get rid of
the runtime type check.

{% assign prevTitle = "the persistent type" %}
{% assign prevLink = "." %}
{% assign upTitle = "the persistent type" %}
{% assign upLink = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "keys" %}
{% assign nextLink = "keys.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}

Commit message:

update discussion on prop limitations

manual/ptype/properties.md, after:

---
title: properties
layout: page
---

In our `PType`, when we talk about the fields of our persistent
object, we talk about properties, or `Props`. Properties map to
underlying members within the [persistent object](../persistent), at
any depth. They follow a path from the root of the persistent object,
and take on the type of that member in the persistent. We typically
define them in a singleton object `props` inside the `PType`. Here's
an example defining a couple of properties:

```scala
import longevity.subdomain.PType

case class UserProfile(
  tagline: String,
  imageUri: Uri,
  description: Markdown)

case class User(
  username: String,
  email: Email,
  profile: UserProfile)

object User extends PType[User] {
  object props {

    // fully typed:
    val profileDescription: longevity.subdomain.ptype.Prop[User, Markdown] =
      prop[Markdown]("profile.description")

    // brief:
    val username = prop[String]("username")
  }
  object keys {
  }
}
```

You need to specify the type of the property yourself, and longevity
will check that the type is correct when the `Subdomain` is created.

In principle, properties could map through any path from the
persistent object, and have a wide variety of types. In practice, the
kinds of properties currently supported is somewhat limited. We do
plan to address all of these limitations, and removing some of them is
high priority. For more details, please see the ["remove restrictions
on properties" epic](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/epic/show/2975505)
on our story board. Here are there current limitations:

  - No properties with collection types.
  - No properties with types that (recursively) contain members with collection or polymorphic types.
  - No properties with paths that contain collections.
  - No properties with paths that terminate with a polymorphic type.

We're working on building these properties for you using
[macros](http://docs.scala-lang.org/overviews/macros/overview.html). This
will remove the hassle of declaring properties by hand.

{% assign prevTitle = "the persistent type" %}
{% assign prevLink = "." %}
{% assign upTitle = "the persistent type" %}
{% assign upLink = "." %}
{% assign nextTitle = "keys" %}
{% assign nextLink = "keys.html" %}
{% include navigate.html %}
